that breakups can be horrifyingly
painful isn't
a secret to people who have gone through
one the amount of suffering
some people experience after a breakup
is a symptom that something about this
situation
isn't quite right from a buddhist point
of view
the breakup itself isn't a problem
because losing people that we meet in
our lifetime
is a natural thing as it's part of the
ways of an impermanent universe
the problem lies in the way we approach
the idea of love which is mainly
characterized by desire
and attachment but true love in the
buddhist
sense has very little to do with
attachment and desire
love shouldn't hurt instead it should be
a blissful experience
that benefits all people involved
when we suffer from a breakup there's
been too much attachment involved to a
point that we begin to feel
dependent on the person we're connected
with thinking that we need
this person to be happy to some extent
we can compare
ourselves with addicts who are separated
from their drugs
but there's hope we can build
attachments but we can free ourselves
from them as well
freedom from attachment and certain
desires lies at the heart of the
buddhist path
which aims for enlightenment from the
suffering of life
this video explores buddhist teachings
that can help us cope with
and prevent a painful breakup
[Music]
to free ourselves from suffering we need
a correct insight
into the truth of existence in buddhism
this insight is provided by the four
noble truths
the first truth is that suffering is an
innate characteristic
of existence the second truth is that
suffering emerges
from a certain thirst that can be
identified
as craving clinging attachment and
desire
the third truth is that suffering can be
ended
by letting go of this thirst the fourth
truth
is the path that liberates us from
suffering
today's romantic relationships are
deeply problematic from a buddhist point
of view
because they're drenched in attachment
and desire
we don't just need our lovers to be
present in our lives
we also expect them to do things that
make us happy and abstain from the
things that make us unhappy
this way of love even though it's
celebrated in our culture
is a very unreliable structure to ensure
our well-being
as we've put our happiness in the hands
of someone else
this means that the prospect of losing
that person is terrifying and we go
great
lengths to prevent that from happening
in so far
that we are willing to kill for it now
that's a source of suffering it's
unhealthy
and the wish to never be parted from
another human being means that we are in
denial
of the fact that eventually everything
falls apart and that separation is
inevitable
as the buddha stated from attachment
springs grief
from attachment springs fear from him
who is wholly free
from attachment there's no grief once
then
fear end quote
it's no surprise that we suffer deeply
when we get separated from the person
that we have designated as a primary
source of happiness
it's painful when we suddenly have to
live without the thing we crave
and it's even more painful when our
source of happiness
is now serving someone else
the good news is that our cravings can
lessen the more we free ourselves
from our attachment to a particular
person the less we suffer
this may be difficult to accept
especially when we're suffering from
immense grief
and when the only solution to end our
pain seems to be a reconciliation with
the person
we've lost now it's important to
remember that this is a temporary
delusion
in reality we can be happy without this
person
moreover chances are that we don't even
want
this person but simply want to be free
of pain
[Music]
that's why people often try to
self-medicate with alcohol and drugs
or none the pain with excessive
promiscuity or by finding a replacement
as quickly as possible sure these things
may help for a while
but in essence these are nothing more
than an attempt to flee from pain and to
make this work
we need to keep indulging ourselves in
these pleasures and eventually need more
of them
to maintain the pain reducing effect
this behavior may not only lead to
serious problems
like addiction it also prevents us from
touching the root of our suffering
which means that the thing we're running
from never dissolves
from a buddhist point of view we can
weaken our attachments
by confronting them head on this means
that we need to sit with our pain become
aware of our thoughts
and sensations associated with in this
case
the breakup and watch them closely don't
cling to them
and accept them only when we accept them
we can let them arise without resistance
so they'll eventually
dissipate like clouds in the sky of
course when the attachments are deep
our thoughts and feelings will often
come back and harass us
but after a while the attachments weaken
and we'll experience them less and less
to the point that we hardly think
about our exes anymore so our
relationships
are impermanent but so are our thoughts
and emotions
buddhism doesn't support romantic love
because
it isn't real love real love doesn't
hurt
and isn't directed at one person in such
a clingy
needy manner true love is about giving
without wanting anything in
return about letting go and wishing the
best for others without the prospect of
personal gain
buddhists engage in what is called meta
or
loving-kindness which is an
unconditional love directed at all
sentient beings
including our enemies and whether you
like it or not
rx's as the buddha stated
radiate boundless love towards the
entire
world above below and across
unhindered without ill will without
enmity
end quote for many of us wishing for our
access to be happy
especially when they've done something
awful is a weird
thing to contemplate but this proves how
destructive the conventional pursuit of
love and relationships
really is it's conditional and can
easily turn
into hate how could it have been love if
it's so close to hate
the answer is simple it's not love
what we have experienced is fake love
which is based on desire and attachment
fake love is about satisfying our own
needs
ownership control cravings
using someone as a source of our own
happiness consuming a person
for our own pleasure simply put real
love
is wishing for someone to be happy fake
love is wishing for someone to make us
happy
now we could see a painful breakup as a
blessing in disguise
it's an opportunity to free ourselves
from strong unhealthy attachments
and also to cultivate our ability to be
alone
the better we get at being content in
solitude the more we are able to love
someone
without being needy without wishing for
them to become a source of happiness and
pleasure
to utilize the more we become
self-sufficient
in regards to our own needs and able to
feel complete
within ourselves the less we need
someone this makes way for from a
buddhist perspective
a more genuine and detached form of love
and as a bonus breakups will hurt much
less thank you for watching
[Music]
you